By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understand our Cookie Policy, Privacy Policy, and our Terms of Service. Teams Q&A for Work Stack Overflow for Teams is a private, secure spot for you and
                            your coworkers to find and share information. I have the following JSON text. How can I parse it to get the values of pageName, pagePic, post_id, etc.? The org.json library is easy to use. Example code below: You may find more examples from: Parse JSON in Java Downloadable jar:  http://mvnrepository.com/artifact/org.json/json For the sake of the example lets assume you have a class Person with just a name. My personal favourite as to the great JSON serialisation / de-serialisation of objects. Update If you want to get a single attribute out you can do it easily with the Google library as well: If you don't need object de-serialisation but to simply get an attribute, you can try org.json (or look GSON example above!) If one wants to create Java object from JSON and vice versa, use GSON or JACKSON third party jars etc. But if one just want to parse a JSON string and get some values, (OR create a JSON string from scratch to send over wire) just use JaveEE jar which contains JsonReader, JsonArray, JsonObject etc. You may want to download the implementation of that spec like javax.json. With these two jars I am able to parse the json and use the values. These APIs actually follow the DOM/SAX parsing model of XML. quick-json parser is very straightforward, flexible, very fast and customizable. Try it Features: It can be used like this: You could use Google Gson. Using this library you only need to create a model with the same JSON structure. Then the model is automatically filled in. You have to call your variables as your JSON keys, or use @SerializedName if you want to use different names. From your example: Now you can parse using Gson library: Remember to import the library in the app Gradle file You can generate model from JSON automatically using online tools like this. Almost all the answers given requires a full deserialization of the JSON into a Java object before accessing the value in the property of interest. Another alternative, which does not go this route is to use JsonPATH which is like XPath for JSON and allows traversing of JSON objects. It is a specification and the good folks at JayWay have created a Java implementation for the specification which you can find here: https://github.com/jayway/JsonPath So basically to use it, add it to your project, eg: and to use: etc... Check the JsonPath specification page for more information on the other ways to transverse JSON. You can use Jackson libraries, for binding JSON String into POJO (Plain Old Java Object) instances. POJO is simply a class with only private fields and public getter/setter methods. Jackson is going to traverse the methods (using reflection), and maps the JSON object into the POJO instance as the field names of the class fits to the field names of the JSON object. In your JSON object, which is actually a composite object, the main object consists o two sub-objects. So, our POJO classes should have the same hierarchy. I'll call the whole JSON Object as Page object. Page object consist of a PageInfo object, and a Post object array. So we have to create three different POJO classes; The only package I've used is Jackson ObjectMapper, what we do is binding data; The required dependencies, the jar files is listed below; Here is the required code; I've just copied your JSON sample into this file and put it under the project folder. Use minimal-json which is very fast and easy to use.
You can parse from String obj and Stream. Sample data: Parsing: Creating JSON: Maven: I believe the best practice should be to go through the official Java JSON API which are still work in progress. Since nobody mentioned it yet, here is a beginning of a solution using Nashorn (JavaScript runtime part of Java 8, but deprecated in Java 11). Solution Performance comparison I wrote JSON content containing three arrays of respectively 20, 20 and 100 elements. I only want to get the 100 elements from the third array. I use the following JavaScript function to parse and get my entries. Running the call a million times using Nashorn takes 7.5~7.8 seconds org.json takes 20~21 seconds Jackson takes 6.5~7 seconds In this case Jackson performs better than Nashorn, which performs much better than org.json.
Nashorn API is harder to use than org.json's or Jackson's. Depending on your requirements Jackson and Nashorn both can be viable solutions. The below example shows how to read the text in the question, represented as the "jsonText" variable.  This solution uses the Java EE7 javax.json API (which is mentioned in some of the other answers).  The reason I've added it as a separate answer is that the following code shows how to actually access some of the values shown in the question.  An implementation of the javax.json API would be required to make this code run.  The full package for each of the classes required was included as I didn't want to declare "import" statements. Now, before anyone goes and downvotes this answer because it doesn't use GSON, org.json, Jackson, or any of the other 3rd party frameworks available, it's an example of "required code" per the question to parse the provided text.  I am well aware that adherence to the current standard JSR 353 was not being considered for JDK 9 and as such the JSR 353 spec should be treated the same as any other 3rd party JSON handling implementation. This blew my mind with how easy it was. You can just pass a String holding your JSON to the constructor of a JSONObject in the default org.json package. Done. Drops microphone.
This works with JSONObjects as well. After that, you can just look through your hierarchy of Objects using the get() methods on your objects. There are many JSON libraries available in Java. The most notorious ones are: Jackson, GSON, Genson, FastJson and org.json. There are typically three things one should look at for choosing any library: Specifically for JSON libraries (and any serialization/deserialization libs), databinding is also usually of interest as it removes the need of writing boiler-plate code to pack/unpack the data. For 1, see this benchmark: https://github.com/fabienrenaud/java-json-benchmark I did using JMH which compares (jackson, gson, genson, fastjson, org.json, jsonp) performance of serializers and deserializers using stream and databind APIs.
For 2, you can find numerous examples on the Internet. The benchmark above can also be used as a source of examples... Quick takeaway of the benchmark: Jackson performs 5 to 6 times better than org.json and more than twice better than GSON. For your particular example, the following code decodes your json with jackson: Let me know if you have any questions. In addition to other answers, I recomend this online opensource service jsonschema2pojo.org for quick generating Java classes from json or json schema for GSON, Jackson 1.x or Jackson 2.x. For example, if you have: The jsonschema2pojo.org for GSON generated: If you have some Java class(say Message) representing the JSON string(jsonString), you can use Jackson  JSON library with: and from message object you can fetch any of its attribute. Gson is easy to learn and implement, what we need to know are following two methods toJson() – Convert Java object to JSON format fromJson() – Convert JSON into Java object ` ` There are many open source libraries present to parse JSON content to an object or just to read JSON values. Your requirement is just to read values and parsing it to custom object. So org.json library is enough in your case. Use org.json library to parse it and create JsonObject: Now, use this object to get your values: You can see a complete example here: How to parse JSON in Java Please do something like this: You can use the Gson Library to parse the JSON string. You can also loop through the "posts" array as so: Read the following blog post, JSON in Java. This post is a little bit old, but still I want to answer you question. Step 1: Create a POJO class of your data. Step 2: Now create a object using JSON. For further reference you can refer to the following link. Top answers on this page use too simple examples like object with one property (e.g. {name: value}). I think that still simple but real life example can help someone. So this is the JSON returned by Google Translate API: I want to retrieve the value of "translatedText" attribute e.g. "Arbeit" using Google's Gson. Two possible approaches: Retrieve just one needed attribute Create Java object from JSON ... First you need to select an implementation library to do that. The Java API for JSON Processing (JSR 353) provides portable APIs to parse, generate, transform, and query JSON using object model and streaming APIs. The reference implementation is here: https://jsonp.java.net/ Here you can find a list of implementations of JSR 353: What are the API that does implement JSR-353 (JSON) And to help you decide... I found this article as well: http://blog.takipi.com/the-ultimate-json-library-json-simple-vs-gson-vs-jackson-vs-json/ If you go for Jackson, here is a good article about conversion between JSON to/from Java using Jackson: https://www.mkyong.com/java/how-to-convert-java-object-to-from-json-jackson/ Hope it helps! You can use Jayway JsonPath. Below is a GitHub link with source code, pom details and good documentation. https://github.com/jayway/JsonPath Please follow the below steps. Step 1: Add the jayway JSON path dependency in your class path using Maven or download the JAR file and manually add it. Step 2: Please save your input JSON as a file for this example. In my case I saved your JSON as sampleJson.txt. Note you missed a comma between pageInfo and posts. Step 3: Read the JSON contents from the above file using bufferedReader and save it as String. Step 4: Parse your JSON string using jayway JSON parser. Step 5: Read the details like below. The output will be: I have JSON like this: Java class Code for converting this JSON to a Java class. Maven One can use Apache @Model annotation to create Java model classes representing structure of JSON files and use them to access various elements in the JSON tree. Unlike other solutions this one works completely without reflection and is thus suitable for environments where reflection is impossible or comes with significant overhead. There is a sample Maven project showing the usage. First of all it defines the structure: and then it uses the generated RepositoryInfo and Owner classes to parse the provided input stream and pick certain information up while doing that: That is it! In addition to that here is a live gist showing similar example together with asynchronous network communication. jsoniter (jsoniterator) is a relatively new and simple json library, designed to be simple and fast. All you need to do to deserialize json data is where jsonData is a string of json data. Check out the official website
for more information. We can use the JSONObject class to convert a JSON string to a JSON object,
and to iterate over the JSON object. Use the following code. You can use DSM stream parsing library for parsing complex json and XML document. DSM parse data only once and not load all data into memory. Let's say we have Page class to deserialize given json data. Page class Create a yaml Mapping file. Use DSM to extract fields. page variable serialized to json: DSM is very good for complex json and xml. You can use JsonNode for a structured tree representation of your JSON string. It's part of the rock solid jackson library which is omnipresent. To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader. site design / logo © 2020 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa.                    rev 2020.10.19.37839 